# Safe Trust-worthy Autonomous Delivery System (STAD)

The problem this project aims to address is the hazards associated with railway crossings. Crossings are the most common place for accidents and train derailments. It is a dangerous location and the only safety precautions for crossings today are booms, which are only installed in about half crossings in Sweden. However, even with booms at these crossings, safety issues still arise. Specifically, vehicles and trailers can be stuck between the booms when they fall. This is somewhat ameliorated when it comes to cars as they can drive through them, as the booms are mainly breakable. However, in the case of trailers, they often get stuck. This issue gets worsened with the rise of autonomous vehicles.

Autonomous vehicles will not allow you to drive through the barriers as they're taken as a wall or an obstacle, thus putting the passengers at great risk. These fears and walk-about today are not just hypotheticals. Just this year, two accidents have happened where trains collided with trailers left between the booms. The first one had a lethal outcome whereas the second one endured lesser consequence, as this train conductor was aware of what had transpired during the first accident.
The problem is thus very clear: the current safety precautions on crossings are insufficient and do not protect the safety of train passengers or other users, including pedestrians at the crossing. A solution, therefore, would require an ability to detect whether an object is between the booms and the crossings and be able to inform the train earlier on such that it can apply break, and the issue can be resolved with no grave consequences or loss of life. Hence, the solution proposed by this project – STAD: an autonomous aerial surveillance system able to detect objects between the booms and forward information to the train, via the C-ITS technology, such that it can apply break within time.

 The STAD project consists of a drone and a ground vehicle. The drone is equipped with a camera for object detection, while the ground vehicle is equipped with communication, able to communicate with the trains. This is how the system is envisioned. Once the booms fall, the system activates, and the drone is automatically deployed. Once the drone is at altitude high enough to cover the crossing, it begins surveillance, detecting objects between the booms, and if any objects are detected, transfers that information down to the ground vehicle, which can contact the nearby trains. Finally, when the booms go up and a danger has passed, the system begins to de-deployment, beginning with landing of the drone. Once the drone is landed into the cone-shaped landing platform, it is a clear end of mission, and this iteration and operation is finished. This loop continues every time the booms go up and down for the lifetime of the project.
 
This project is a collaboration between two stakeholders and MDU, Volvo Infrastructure Equipment and Alstom, a defect combination of their respective projects. Volvo, the development of the drone, tethered drone for surveillance, and Alstom, in development of a communication protocol between ground vehicles and trains. Combining these two projects gives us the unique opportunity to solve a real-world problem, as well as further the interests of our stakeholders.
